Hello.
Welcome to the Graph Analytics module
in the Big Data specialization.
I'm Amarnath Gupta, a research scientist
at the San Diego Supercomputer Center.
What do I do research on?
Well, a number of different areas,
all generally related to data engineering.
But the area I'm recently very
excited about has to do with graphs.
Now, graphs or
networks has many people call them,
are about studying relationships and
relationship patterns on objects.
I became interested in graphs
when I was a graduate student and
the professor in our artificial
intelligence class showed us how a part of
human knowledge can be represented as
a kind of graphs called semantic networks.
She showed us how even
very simple things like
relationships somewhere in a family can
be represented and viewed as graphs.
Represent your knowledge huh?
Now, that got me really excited.
Someday, I thought this will be a really
interesting topic to research on.
What I didn't realize then is that
in just a few years graphs and
the need to model and analyze them would
become so dominant in both academia and
industry that graphs will
be found everywhere today.
Now we look at Facebook,
LinkedIn, Twitter, and many,
many more companies that
are thriving in the market with data
that are represented, modeled,
and processed as graphs.
Now, even the entire World Wide Web,
if you think about it,
is a giant graph that people analyze.
And that brings us to this course.
Now, in this course, I'll introduce you
to the wonderful world of Graph Analytics
specifically, I'd like
to show how different
kinds of real world data science problems
can be viewed and modeled as graphs.
And how the process of solving
them can apply analytical
techniques that used graph based methods,
that is Algorithms.
This course would have four models.
In model one, we'll introduce graphs and
different applications that use graphs.
In model two,
we'll cover a number of common techniques,
mathematical and algorithm techniques,
that are used in Graph Analytics.
In module three,
we'll look at a graph database.
And through some sort
of a hands on guidance,
we'll show you how to store and
query graph data with the database.
In module four, we'll cover some
strategies of handling very large
graphs and discuss how existing
tools that are currently used by
the community are actually prints.
Thank you for joining this course and
I sincerely hope that you'll find
it both exciting and useful.
Happy learning.